Hi.
We didn't like your regrouping to learn how to work with five star database so that we can get all of
this information and save them to our database.
So let's go to our firebase dashboard in which we can click on this database and we can initialize the
database process.
So we're going to do this for bonds as we did in the storage and authentication so click on this database
and you will see this file your store option where you're going to go with fire star and in below you
can see the real time database as well but we're not going to use this because that's old news.
Fi your store is the next generation of the real time database and it really has more powerful features
compared to real time database.
So we're not going to use real time database.
We're going to go for called fires star which is the latest and best technology available in the fire
base.
OK.
I'm telling all of this because you may encounter some real time database examples in online tutorials
in the U.S. Army or any other tutorial sites like YouTube or the tutorials that you can see on the stack
overflow you can encounter it is a real time database.
But we're gonna go for five serve because that's better anywhere.
So if you create create this you will be asked if you want to go for locked or task board.
We're going to start with the test mode.
So this is the security rules that we have talked about in this storage default for the database is
loving reading a writing for test mode.
And we're going to go for test mode and then we can change it later on.
And as you can see for location we cannot choose anything because it has to be same with the storage.
It makes sense to be same with the on the same location with storage because we're using the same database.
It has to be synchronized so it doesn't let us choose another location at this moment.
So here you go.
That's our database before we go on and use databases in code.
We have to understand the database structure.
So if you have worked with a well before this is nothing like a square.
So you have to forget about your a or sequel whatever you want to pronounce it.
OK.
This is not like sequel.
In here we have collections and documents.
So for example we we have to start with a collection.
If you click on the start collection you can call your collection posts it under the collection.
You will have a document.
OK.
So this will be your individual posts.
If you click on these photo I.D. will create a unique I.D. for your documents and in the document you
may how whatever field and value you want.
So this is like a dictionary like key and value pairings.
For example in the post we we will have comments right.
They are going to be strings and something like I love this picture I love this photo.
And let me add this so you can see it better.
So this is our collection.
This is the main thing.
This is like a class.
And under this class we have all these objects like posts and these are called documents in the file.
Yes sir.
And then you click on a document you see its properties you see its values.
So for example we can have a user e-mailed and James said Metallica dot com value in here.
And actually we're going to have the user e-mailed the commands and we're going to have a date as well.
OK let me just put a dummy value in here and then we're gonna add another post later on for example
and we can add as many as we want.
So they will have another value like Lara said Metallica dot com.
So when I click on this now I mean I'm inside the other post if I click on this I'm inside the previous
post I can add as many as fields as I want in here.
So this is the most basic representation of the five year base data database actually fire store database
and you can have as many as collections you want you can have as many as documents you want inside of
the collection and yet better you can have a collection inside of a document as well.
So if you want some layered structure structured you can have a new collection inside of this document
as well.
And then another document I under that's called so you can have layered collections on documents inside
of fire start.
That's not very fit for our purpose right now because we just want to save the posts and we we will
have as many as we want in here.
So this is currently meeting my expectation in the fire store.
But if I want to add another collection like users or I don't know like likes collection or something
else then I can add it from here.
And we're not going to do anything manual in the fire store as well I'm just doing this just to show
you how the structure of the fire sword looks like in order to let you understand the fire store collections
and documents.
We're going to do that all by inside all by code inside of our exe code.
But if you'll take a mental picture of the if you remember this visualization then you can actually
understand what we writing in The X code.
So you have to remember we have field and values like a key and value pairing in here.
In fact we're going to use dictionaries to supply this information to the fire store.
OK.
And that's what we're going to do in the X code so I'm going to delete this collection from here.
And we're going to start from scratch so that you will see we don't have to do anything manually inside
of this database.
Once you initialize this database then you're good to go to come here and write your actual code.
So remember we're using fire store so we can come over here to cloud fire star documentation not a real
time database and click on one of these tabs like get started or structured data add data delete data
retrieve data whatever you want you can find any documentation in here as you wish.
And I really suggest you take a look in here as well because I'm going to be using the most common techniques
inside of our app but of course I cannot tell you everything about to fire your base because it has
so many features.
So let me refresh this.
And in order to leverage those features in your apps you all you have to do just come here and take
a look of course after understanding the basics.
Here you see some sample codes for different kinds of programming languages.
OK.
Obviously we want to see the ones in swift.
And don't worry I'm going to show you how it's done and I'm just showing you this is as an example so
that you get the habit of reading documentation before you go in in an operation like this.
So we're going to do what we have been doing so far are we going to create a five star database variable
and this will drive from the file your store.
OK.
Fire star database as you can see that fires start.
So this is going to be our instance of the fires or class and later on we're going to use this to download
and upload data.
So next thing to do is just to create a reference as well but this will be a little bit different than
before.
So we're going to call this fire store reference.
OK and this will be actually a document reference type.
So put a column not equals sign because I'm going to use this document to reference to upload and download
data as you can see retried.
Listen data and I'm going to make this optional and in fact I can make this Neal to begin with.
OK because after this I'm just going to initialize this.
I'm going to initialize this using file your stored database.
So we're going to do something like this fire sir reference is now five star database Dot.
OK if I use your database dot collection so I will ask me for a collection name.
So that's where I want to give posts.
So after you create your connection you choose your collection name.
You can say add documents and in here it asks you for a string to any dictionary and choose the one
with the completion block because as usual we want to see what happens after we do this.
So here we have to provide a string to any dictionary because remember in the database in the field
of values we have value key pairings.
So that's what we're going to do.
We are going to create key value prey pairings with dictionaries and supply all of this information
with dictionaries to fires start.
So that's why it asks us to create string to any dictionaries.
And after that it will give me a completion and then the completion if you enter you will only see an
error.
And of course we are going to check to see if areas not nil if area is not nil we are going to display
an alert message to the user and else if it's nil.
We are going to do what we have to do.
So since we have our Make alert function let's call this safe setup make Eller title input will be error
message input will be error that localized description of cars it doesn't auto complete right now because
I haven't taken care of this problem in here but I believe I have written it correct.
So we can check it later on.
So let's take care of this string to any dictionary so that we can proceed.
So in the string to any dictionary I want to save all my information all my related information right.
So I'm going to call this file your star post.
I'm going to open this braces in here I'm re going to write the first key first field name as image
you're out right.
So if you put that column the image your l value will be this image your url.
So let's do image euro and put an exclamation point in order to make this not optional.
Of course you can check for it flat in here but I believe this will be okay.
And later on after the image Euro what do we how we how the name of the file name of the owner of the
file.
Right.
So we have the user name and we have the comment.
So I'm going to call this posted by.
So I'm going to select whoever posts this.
So who posts this.
Of course the current user using our app is going to post this and we can get this user by saying off
that of that current user as you might remember.
OK but we're not done here after that.
We have to get the email address of these users so I'm going to say email.
So that's it.
That's how I get the current user.
So let me close this site paints so we can see better.
And after the image you're out and the posted by.
So what else do we get here.
We have to get post to comment as well.
Right.
We have a comment in here in the south that comment tax.
So let me write this as well.
I'm going to call this post comment and the value of this post comment will come from self doubt comment
texts dot texts and I can wrap this as well.
So finally we have to you it's a date and actually not finally we have to give it a date and then likes
because we're going to have likes option in our app as well and for dates I'm just going to say dates
right now we're live it's empty.
We're going to see how to do that later on.
OK.
I'm just going to say dates right now and for likes.
I'm going to start with zero and then I'm going to add one after somebody likes our posts so I'm going
to say zero over here.
So once I do that this will ask me to cast is as strict to any because we're having a lot of different
objects as values.
And even though we didn't ask I have to cast this as string to any anyway because this fire is still
a reference method asks me to give an input of string to any anyway.
OK so whatever you write here has value you have to cast is as s String any and after that you can just
say hi fi your store post in here and we're getting some kind of error here it says that Forester reference
is a constant and you're changing it.
So let me hit fixed to make it var or you can just come over here and write var as well.
And in here it asks for an optional or force and wrapping value in here so I'm going to go for optional
and later on you can provide the default value if this is an empty value here saying two questions Mark.
Error.
OK.
So I believe now this is OK because we have created our fire store post we have created our dictionaries
during to any dictionary and by using this fire still reference we're uploading that information in
the Post's collection.
OK so now I believe you're ready to test this later on.
We are going to change this date to the actual date.
But for right now we can actually test to see if we can in fact provide this image you're all posted
by post command to the server or not.
So let's open our simulator.
Let's go to upload section.
OK.
Let's select a picture so that we can upload it to the storage and let's write a comment this time because
we're going to test this.
So let's say Starry Night.
And if I hit upload it won't take me to the feet.
This is an expected behavior because we haven't written that called yet but we can come over to the
database and refresh it to see if we have the Post's collection created.
So here you go we now see the posts we now see to their comments.
And under this document we see the date image URL likes and the all the other at result the other feel
them values that I have defined in my post dictionary.
So here in the image URL I see the current uploaded images your URL.
So that's good.
That's all I wanted to do.
We have to take care of this date in order to order all of this information order all of these posts
by date in our feet.
So let's stop here and do that within the next lecture.